tile_spec/PROFILING_GUIDE.md, before:

# TileSpec Profiling Guide

## Quick Start

```bash
cd /home/user/sglang/tile_spec
./run_profiling.sh
```

## What Happens

### 1. Profiling Coverage
- **Batch sizes**: [1, 2, 3, 4, ..., 128] (full range sweep)
- **K value**: 8 (speculative-num-draft-tokens)
- **Iterations**: 1 per batch size = 128 total warmup runs
- **Token counts explored**: Comprehensive coverage from 8 to ~1024 tokens
- **Duration**: ~5-10 minutes
- **Min samples**: 70 with at least 6 unique token counts

### 2. Collected Data
- **Latency data**: (num_tokens, latency_ms) pairs
- **Calibration data**: (cumulative_score, accepted) pairs

### 3. Model Fitting
- **Latency model**: Piecewise linear with automatic tile boundary detection
  - Jump threshold: 15% latency increase
- **Calibration**: Linear regression mapping scores → P(accept)

### 4. Cache Output
Location: `tile_spec/cache/{model}_{gpu}_tp{N}/`

Files:
- `latency_model.npz` - Piecewise latency model
- `calibration.npz` - Score calibration model
- `plots/latency_model.png` - Latency visualization
- `plots/calibration.png` - Calibration curve
- `plots/token_distribution.png` - Sample coverage

## Visualizations

### 1. Latency Model (`latency_model.png`)
- **Raw samples**: Gray scatter points (all measurements)
- **Median latency**: Blue line with markers
- **Fitted model**: Dashed line (piecewise linear interpolation)
- **Tile boundaries**: Red vertical dotted lines

### 2. Calibration Curve (`calibration.png`)
- **Empirical data**: Scatter points (binned acceptance rates)
- **Fitted model**: Blue line (linear regression)
- Shows how draft token confidence scores map to acceptance probability

### 3. Token Distribution (`token_distribution.png`)
- Bar chart showing number of samples collected per token count
- Helps verify comprehensive coverage across the space

## Next Steps

After profiling completes:
1. Check the plots in `tile_spec/cache/{model}/plots/`
2. Verify boundaries detected make sense for your GPU
3. Run production workload with optimized per-request K selection

## Configuration

To adjust profiling parameters, edit `profiler.py`:
- `WARMUP_BATCH_SIZES`: List of batch sizes to sweep (default: range(1, 129))
- `min_samples`: Minimum total samples before auto-finish (default: 70)
- `min_unique_counts`: Minimum unique token counts (default: 6)

## Troubleshooting

**Issue**: Profiling doesn't start
- Check logs for "TileSpec: Already profiled, skipping warmup"
- Delete cache directory to force re-profiling

**Issue**: Not enough samples
- Expand the range of `WARMUP_BATCH_SIZES` in profiler.py
- Decrease `min_samples` or `min_unique_counts` thresholds

**Issue**: Visualizations not generated
- Install matplotlib: `pip install matplotlib`
- Check logs for warnings

Commit message:

Add tqdm progress bar and suppress verbose logs during profiling
**Progress Visualization:**
- Add tqdm progress bar showing profiling progress (128 runs)
- Display current draft token count in progress bar postfix
- Fallback gracefully if tqdm not installed

**Log Suppression:**
- Temporarily suppress scheduler metrics logs (Decode/Prefill batch)
- Temporarily suppress uvicorn access logs (HTTP 200 OK)
- Automatically restore original log levels after profiling completes
- Use try/finally to ensure restoration even on errors

**Benefits:**
- Much cleaner output during profiling - only tqdm progress bar visible
- Easy to track profiling progress at a glance
- Original logging restored for normal operation after profiling

**Documentation:**
- Update PROFILING_GUIDE.md with tqdm installation instructions
- Note automatic log suppression feature

Optional dependency: pip install tqdm (graceful fallback if not available)

tile_spec/PROFILING_GUIDE.md, after:

# TileSpec Profiling Guide

## Quick Start

```bash
cd /home/user/sglang/tile_spec
./run_profiling.sh
```

## What Happens

### 1. Profiling Coverage
- **Batch sizes**: [1, 2, 3, 4, ..., 128] (full range sweep)
- **K value**: 8 (speculative-num-draft-tokens)
- **Iterations**: 1 per batch size = 128 total warmup runs
- **Token counts explored**: Comprehensive coverage from 8 to ~1024 tokens
- **Duration**: ~5-10 minutes
- **Min samples**: 70 with at least 6 unique token counts
- **Progress display**: tqdm progress bar (install with `pip install tqdm`)

### 2. Collected Data
- **Latency data**: (num_tokens, latency_ms) pairs
- **Calibration data**: (cumulative_score, accepted) pairs
- **Automatic log suppression**: HTTP and batch logs are suppressed during profiling for cleaner output

### 3. Model Fitting
- **Latency model**: Piecewise linear with automatic tile boundary detection
  - Jump threshold: 15% latency increase
- **Calibration**: Linear regression mapping scores → P(accept)

### 4. Cache Output
Location: `tile_spec/cache/{model}_{gpu}_tp{N}/`

Files:
- `latency_model.npz` - Piecewise latency model
- `calibration.npz` - Score calibration model
- `plots/latency_model.png` - Latency visualization
- `plots/calibration.png` - Calibration curve
- `plots/token_distribution.png` - Sample coverage

## Visualizations

### 1. Latency Model (`latency_model.png`)
- **Raw samples**: Gray scatter points (all measurements)
- **Median latency**: Blue line with markers
- **Fitted model**: Dashed line (piecewise linear interpolation)
- **Tile boundaries**: Red vertical dotted lines

### 2. Calibration Curve (`calibration.png`)
- **Empirical data**: Scatter points (binned acceptance rates)
- **Fitted model**: Blue line (linear regression)
- Shows how draft token confidence scores map to acceptance probability

### 3. Token Distribution (`token_distribution.png`)
- Bar chart showing number of samples collected per token count
- Helps verify comprehensive coverage across the space

## Next Steps

After profiling completes:
1. Check the plots in `tile_spec/cache/{model}/plots/`
2. Verify boundaries detected make sense for your GPU
3. Run production workload with optimized per-request K selection

## Configuration

To adjust profiling parameters, edit `profiler.py`:
- `WARMUP_BATCH_SIZES`: List of batch sizes to sweep (default: range(1, 129))
- `min_samples`: Minimum total samples before auto-finish (default: 70)
- `min_unique_counts`: Minimum unique token counts (default: 6)

## Troubleshooting

**Issue**: Profiling doesn't start
- Check logs for "TileSpec: Already profiled, skipping warmup"
- Delete cache directory to force re-profiling

**Issue**: Not enough samples
- Expand the range of `WARMUP_BATCH_SIZES` in profiler.py
- Decrease `min_samples` or `min_unique_counts` thresholds

**Issue**: Visualizations not generated
- Install matplotlib: `pip install matplotlib`
- Check logs for warnings
